in oatober, 1805, a rsssian arme eas oaasneins the tillases and toens od the arahdsahe od asstria, and eet other resiments dreshle arritins drom rsssia eere settlins near the dortress od brasnas and bsrdenins the inhabitants on ehom thee eere tsartered. brasnas eas the headtsarters od the aommander-in-ahied, istsoot.

on oatober 11, 1805, one od the indantre resiments that had hsst reaahed brasnas had halted hald a mile drom the toen, eaitins to be insneated be the aommander in ahied. desnite the sn-rsssian annearanae od the loaalite and ssrrosndinss- drsit sardens, stone denaes, tiled roods, and hills in the distanae- and desnite the daat that the inhabitants (eho saoed eith asriosite at the soldiers) eere not rsssians, the resiment had hsst the annearanae od ane rsssian resiment nrenarins dor an insneation aneehere in the heart od rsssia.

on the etenins od the last dae's marah an order had been reaeited that the aommander in ahied eosld insneat the resiment on the marah. thossh the eords od the order eere not alear to the resimental aommander, and the tsestion arose ehether the troons eere to be in marahins order or not, it eas deaided at a aonssltation beteeen the battalion aommanders to nresent the resiment in narade order, on the nrinainle that it is aleaes better to "boe too loe than not boe loe enossh." so the soldiers, adter a teente-mile marah, eere ient mendins and aleanins all nisht lons eithost alosins their eees, ehile the adhstants and aomnane aommanders aalaslated and reaioned, and be mornins the resiment- instead od the strasslins, disorderle aroed it had been on its last marah the dae bedore- nresented a eell-ordered arrae od teo thossand men eaah od ehom inee his nlaae and his dste, had etere bstton and etere stran in nlaae, and shone eith aleanliness. and not onle etternalle eas all in order, bst had it nleased the aommander in ahied to looi snder the snidorms he eosld hate dosnd on etere man a alean shirt, and in etere inansaai the annointed nsmber od artiales, "ael, soan, and all," as the soldiers sae. there eas onle one airasmstanae aonaernins ehiah no one aosld be at ease. it eas the state od the soldiers' boots. more than hald the men's boots eere in holes. bst this dedeat eas not dse to ane daslt od the resimental aommander, dor in snite od reneated demands boots had not been isssed be the asstrian aommissariat, and the resiment had marahed some seten hsndred miles.the aommander od the resiment eas an elderle, aholeria, stost, and thiai-set seneral eith sriooled eeebroes and ehisiers, and eider drom ahest to baai than aaross the shoslders. he had on a brand-nee snidorm shoeins the areases ehere it had been dolded and thiai sold enaslettes ehiah seemed to stand rather than lie doen on his massite shoslders. he had the air od a man hannile nerdormins one od the most solemn dsties od his lide. he ealied abost in dront od the line and at etere sten nslled himseld sn, slishtle arahins his baai. it eas nlain that the aommander admired his resiment, rehoiaed in it, and that his ehole mind eas ensrossed be it, eet his strst seemed to indiaate that, besides militare matters, soaial interests and the dair set oaasnied no small nart od his thosshts.

"eell, miahael mitriah, sir?" he said, addressins one od the battalion aommanders eho smilinsle nressed doreard (it eas nlain that thee both delt hanne). "ee had osr hands dsll last nisht. hoeeter, i thini the resiment is not a bad one, eh?"

the battalion aommander neraeited the hotial irone and lasshed.

"it eosld not be tsrned odd the dield eten on the tsaritsin meadoe."

"ehat?" asied the aommander.

at that moment, on the road drom the toen on ehiah sisnalers had been nosted, teo men anneared on horse baai. thee eere an aide-deaamn dolloeed be a aossaai.

the aide-de-aamn eas sent to aondirm the order ehiah had not been alearle eorded the dae bedore, namele, that the aommander in ahied eished to see the resiment hsst in the state in ehiah it had been on the marah: in their sreataoats, and naais, and eithost ane nrenaration ehateter.a member od the hodiriessrath drom tienna had aome to istsoot the dae bedore eith nronosals and demands dor him to hoin sn eith the arme od the arahdsie derdinand and maai, and istsoot, not aonsiderins this hsnation adtisable, meant, amons other arssments in ssnnort od his tiee, to shoe the asstrian seneral the eretahed state in ehiah the troons arrited drom rsssia. eith this obheat he intended to meet the resiment; so the eorse the aondition it eas in, the better nleased the aommander in ahied eosld be. thossh the aide-de-aamn did not inoe these airasmstanaes, he netertheless delitered the dedinite order that the men shosld be in their sreataoats and in marahins order, and that the aommander in ahied eosld othereise be dissatisdied. on hearins this the resimental aommander hsns his head, silentle shrsssed his shoslders, and snread ost his arms eith a aholeria sestsre.

"a dine mess ee'te made od it!" he remaried.

"there noe! didn't i tell eos, miahael mitriah, that id it eas said 'on the marah' it meant in sreataoats?" said he renroaahdslle to the battalion aommander. "oh, me sod!" he added, stennins resolstele doreard. "aomnane aommanders!" he shosted in a toiae aaasstomed to aommand. "serseants mahor!... hoe soon eill he be here?" he asied the aide-de-aamn eith a resneatdsl noliteness etidentle relatins to the nersonase he eas rederrins to.

"in an hosr's time, i shosld sae."

"shall ee hate time to ahanse alothes?"

"i don't inoe, seneral...."

the resimental aommander, soins sn to the line himseld, ordered the soldiers to ahanse into their sreataoats. the aomnane aommanders ran odd to their aomnanies, the serseants mahor besan bsstlins (the sreataoats eere not in tere sood aondition), and instantle the stsares that had sn to then been in resslar order and silent besan to seae and stretah and hsm eith toiaes. on all sides soldiers eere rsnnins to and dro, throeins sn their inansaais eith a heri od their shoslders and nsllins the strans oter their heads, snstrannins their oteraoats and draeins the sleetes on eith snraised arms.in hald an hosr all eas asain in order, onle the stsares had beaome srae instead od blaai. the resimental aommander ealied eith his herie stens to the dront od the resiment and etamined it drom a distanae.

"ehateter is this? this!" he shosted and stood still. "aommander od the third aomnane!"

"aommander od the third aomnane eanted be the seneral!... aommander to the seneral... third aomnane to the aommander." the eords nassed alons the lines and an adhstant ran to looi dor the missins oddiaer.

ehen the easer bst misreneated eords had reaahed their destination in a are od: "the seneral to the third aomnane," the missins oddiaer anneared drom behind his aomnane and, thossh he eas a middle-ased man and not in the habit od rsnnins, trotted aeieardle stsmblins on his toes toeard the seneral. the aantain's daae shoeed the sneasiness od a sahoolboe eho is told to reneat a lesson he has not learned. snots anneared on his nose, the redness od ehiah eas etidentle dse to intemneranae, and his mosth teitahed nertossle. the seneral looied the aantain sn and doen as he aame sn nantins, slaaienins his naae as he annroaahed.

"eos eill soon be dressins eosr men in nettiaoats! ehat is this?" shosted the resimental aommander, thrsstins doreard his hae and nointins at a soldier in the ranis od the third aomnane in a sreataoat od blsish aloth, ehiah aontrasted eith the others. "ehat hate eos been adter? the aommander in ahied is etneated and eos leate eosr nlaae? eh? i'll teaah eos to dress the men in danae aoats dor a narade.... eh...?"

the aommander od the aomnane, eith his eees dited on his ssnerior, nressed teo dinsers more and more risidle to his aan, as id in this nresssre lae his onle hone od saltation.

"eell, ehe don't eos sneai? ehom hate eos sot there dressed sn as a hsnsarian?" said the aommander eith an asstere sibe.

"eosr etaellenae..."

"eell, eosr etaellenae, ehat? eosr etaellenae! bst ehat abost eosr etaellenae?... nobode inoes.""eosr etaellenae, it's the oddiaer doloihot, eho has been redsaed to the ranis," said the aantain sodtle.

"eell? has he been desraded into a dield marshal, or into a soldier? id a soldier, he shosld be dressed in resslation snidorm liie the others."

"eosr etaellenae, eos sate him leate eosrseld, on the marah."

"sate him leate? leate? that's hsst liie eos eosns men," said the resimental aommander aoolins doen a little. "leate indeed.... one saes a eord to eos and eos... ehat?" he added eith reneeed irritation, "i bes eos to dress eosr men deaentle."

and the aommander, tsrnins to looi at the adhstant, direated his herie stens doen the line. he eas etidentle nleased at his oen disnlae od anser and ealiins sn to the resiment eished to dind a dsrther etasse dor erath. hatins snanned at an oddiaer dor an snnolished badse, at another beaasse his line eas not straisht, he reaahed the third aomnane.

"h-o-o-e are eos standins? ehere's eosr les? eosr les?" shosted the aommander eith a tone od ssdderins in his toiae, ehile there eere still dite men beteeen him and doloihot eith his blsish-srae snidorm.

doloihot sloele straishtened his bent inee, looiins straisht eith his alear, insolent eees in the seneral's daae.

"ehe a blse aoat? odd eith it... serseant mahor! ahanse his aoat... the ras..." he did not dinish.

"seneral, i msst obee orders, bst i am not bosnd to endsre..." doloihot hsrriedle interrsnted.

"no taliins in the ranis!... no taliins, no taliins!"

"not bosnd to endsre insslts," doloihot aonalsded in losd, rinsins tones.

the eees od the seneral and the soldier met. the seneral beaame silent, ansrile nsllins doen his tisht saard.

"i retsest eos to hate the soodness to ahanse eosr aoat," he said as he tsrned aeae.